Anne of Brittany announces that all those who would ally with the king of France, will be considered as guilty of the crime of Lèse-majesté.
Charles II becomes Duke of Savoy at age 1; his mother Blanche of Montferrato is regent.
Ch'ing-yang event, a presumed meteor shower or air burst over Qingyang in Ming dynasty China, said to have caused casualties.
John of Kastav finishes a cycle of frescoes in the Holy Trinity Church, Hrastovlje (modern-day southwestern Slovenia).
First edition of the chivalric romance Tirant lo Blanch by Joanot Martorell printed in Valencia.
Anne of Brittany is married to Maximilian I, Holy Roman Emperor by proxy.
Ashikaga Yoshitane becomes shogun of Japan.
Perkin Warbeck claims to be the son of King Edward IV of England, at the court of Burgundy.
Traditional date of the Battle of Glendale (Skye) between the Scottish clans MacDonald and MacLeod.
Catholic missionaries arrive in the African Kingdom of Kongo.
Pêro da Covilhã arrives in Ethiopia.
Regular postal service connects the Habsburg residences of Mechelen and Innsbruck, the first in Germany.
Leonardo da Vinci observes capillary action, in small-bore tubes.
Leonardo da Vinci develops an oil lamp: the flame is enclosed in a glass tube, placed inside a water-filled glass globe.
All Saints' Church, the Schlosskirche in Wittenberg, is begun.
Chinese scholar and printer Hua Sui invents bronze-metal movable type printing in China, although the earlier Wang Zhen had experimented with tin movable type in 1298, and the Koreans had separately innovated bronze movable type.
Tirant lo Blanch, by Joanot Martorell and Martí Joan de Galba, is published.
Aldus Manutius moves to Venice.
John Colet receives his M.A. from Magdalen College, Oxford.
Johann Reuchlin meets Giovanni Pico della Mirandola.
Merchants carry coffee from Yemen to Mecca (approximate date).
Battle of Chocontá: The northern (zaque) tribes of the pre-Columbian Muisca Confederation (central Colombia) are beaten by the southern (zipa) tribes.
