Fall of Granada: Muhammad XII, the last Emir of Granada, surrenders his city to the army of the Catholic Monarchs (Ferdinand II of Aragon and Isabella I of Castile) after a lengthy siege, ending the 10-year Granada War and the centuries-long Reconquista, and bringing an end to 780 years of Muslim control in Al-Andalus.
Ferdinand and Isabella enter into Granada.
Christopher Columbus meets Ferdinand and Isabella at the Alcázar de los Reyes Cristianos in Córdoba, Andalusia, and persuades them to support his Atlantic voyage intended to find a new route to the East Indies.
The first grammar of the Spanish language (Gramática de la lengua castellana) is presented to Queen Isabella I.
The Pentateuch is first printed.
Ferdinand and Isabella sign the Alhambra Decree, expelling all Jews from Spain unless they convert to Roman Catholicism.
The Capitulations of Santa Fe are signed between Christopher Columbus and the Crown of Castile, agreeing on arrangements for his forthcoming voyage.
Death of Elizabeth Woodville, the last living Yorkist queen.
The Jews are expelled from Spain; 40,000–200,000 leave. Sultan Bayezid II of the Ottoman Empire, learning of this, dispatches the Ottoman Navy to bring the Jews safely to Ottoman lands, mainly to the cities of Thessaloniki (in modern-day Greece) and Izmir (in modern-day Turkey).
The Genoese navigator Christopher Columbus sails with three ships from Palos de la Frontera, in the service of the Crown of Castile, on his first voyage across the Atlantic Ocean, intending to reach Asia.
Pope Alexander VI succeeds Pope Innocent VIII as the 214th pope, after the 1492 papal conclave, the first held in the Sistine Chapel.
Christoper Columbus sails from La Gomera in the Canary Islands, his final port of call before crossing the Atlantic Ocean for the first time.
English army besieges Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Several members of the first voyage of Christopher Columbus witness an unusual light.
Christopher Columbus' expedition makes landfall in the Caribbean and lands on Guanahani, but he believes he has reached the East Indies.
Christopher Columbus lands in Cuba.
The Peace of Étaples is signed between England and France, ending French support for Perkin Warbeck, the pretender to the English throne. All English-held territory in France (with the exception of Calais) is returned to France.
The Ensisheim meteorite, a 127-kg meteorite, lands in a wheat field near the village of Ensisheim in Alsace.
Christopher Columbus becomes the first European to set foot on the island of Hispaniola.
Columbus' ship Santa María runs aground off Cap-Haïtien, and is lost.
About 100,000 Jews are expelled from Sicily.
Antonio de Nebrija publishes Gramática de la lengua castellana, the first grammar text for the language of Castile, in Salamanca, which he introduces to Ferdinand and Isabella as "a tool of empire."
Martin Behaim constructs the first surviving globe of Earth, the Erdapfel. As Columbus would only return from his voyage in 1493, this globe does not show the New World yet.
Casimir IV Jagiellon, of the Jagiellon Royal House, ends his reign (1427–1492).
The first arboretum to be designed and planted is the Arboretum Trsteno, near Dubrovnik in Croatia.
Russians build the Ivangorod Fortress, on the eastern banks of the Narva River.
In Ming Dynasty China, the commercial transportation of grain to the northern border, in exchange for salt certificates, is monetized.
Ermysted's Grammar School, Skipton, North Yorkshire, is founded.
Marsilio Ficino publishes his translation and commentary of Plotinus.
