The Cetinje Octoechos (???????? ??????, an Eastern Orthodox octoechos (liturgy), first tone), the first incunabulum written in the Serbian recension of Church Slavonic, and the first book printed in Cyrillic in Southeast Europe, is completed in Cetinje.
Alfonso II becomes King of Naples.
Maximilian I, Holy Roman Emperor, recognises Perkin Warbeck as rightful King of England.
Christopher Columbus first sights Jamaica.
The infant Amda Seyon II succeeds his father Eskender, as Emperor of Ethiopia.
First Battle of Acentejo: Natives of the island of Tenerife, known as Guanches, defeat the invading Spanish forces.
Brother John Cor of Lindores Abbey pays duty on 8 bolls of malt to the Exchequer in Scotland to make aqua vitae for King James IV; the record in the Exchequer Rolls is the first written reference to Scotch whisky.
Treaty of Tordesillas: Spain and Portugal divide the New World between themselves.
The first hurricane ever observed by Europeans strikes the Spanish settlement of La Isabela, on Hispaniola.
Ludovico Sforza becomes Duke of Milan, and invites Charles VIII of France to invade Italy in support of his claim, beginning the Italian War of 1494–98.
Amda Seyon II is deposed and killed, and his uncle Na'od succeeds him as Emperor of Ethiopia.
The House of Medici is expelled from Florence.
Fra Luca Pacioli's Summa de arithmetica, geometria, proportioni et proportionalità is published in Venice, containing the first printed account of algebra in the vernacular, and the first published description of the double-entry accounting system.
Italian War of 1494–98: The armies of Charles VIII of France enter Florence.
Second Battle of Acentejo: The Spanish crush the native forces of the island of Tenerife, leading to the subjugation of this last bastion of resistance in the Canary Islands.
Aztec forces conquer and sack Mitla.
Aldus Manutius prints Pietro Bembo's De Aetna in Venice, considered to be the first book to include the semicolon.
Johann Reuchlin publishes De verbo mirifico.
