King's College, Aberdeen, predecessor of the University of Aberdeen in Scotland, is founded on the petition of William Elphinstone, Bishop of Aberdeen. It is the first English-speaking university to teach medicine.
Italian War of 1494–98: King Charles VIII of France enters Naples, to claim the city's throne. A few months later, he decides to return to France, and leaves Naples with most of his army, leaving a force under his cousin Gilbert, Count of Montpensier as viceroy. Syphilis is first definitely recorded in Europe during this invasion.[1] (perhaps from French forces who may have contacted Croats fleeing an Ottoman army in the east).
A Spanish army under Gonzalo Fernández de Córdoba lands in Calabria, with the purpose of ousting the French and restoring Ferdinand II of Naples to the throne.
Friar John Cor records the first known batch of Scotch whisky.
Battle of Seminara: Córdoba and Ferdinand are defeated by a French army under Bernard Stewart, Lord of Aubigny.
Perkin Warbeck's troops land in Kent, in support of his claim to the English crown, backed by Margaret of York, Duchess of Burgundy. They are routed before Warbeck himself can disembark, and he retreats to Ireland and then to Scotland.
Battle of Fornovo: The French army under King Charles secures its retreat from Italy, by defeating a combined Milanese-Venetian force under Giovanni Francesco Gonzaga, Marquis of Mantua.
John, King of Denmark, sets sail for Kalmar, Sweden, to negotiate with Sten Sture the Elder to restore the power of the Kalmar Union. However, his flagship, Gribshunden, catches fire and sinks off the coast of Ronneby with loss of life, and he is forced to abandon the mission.
King Manuel I of Portugal begins his reign.
An explosion at Vyborg Castle deters the Russian forces, who have invaded Sweden through Karelia.
Poynings' Law comes into effect, placing the Parliament of Ireland under the authority of the Parliament of England.
The Reichskammergericht of the Holy Roman Empire is founded in Frankfurt.
Henry VII of England commissions the world's first dry dock, at Portsmouth.
Piero Pacini da Pescia publishes Epistles, Gospels, and Popular Readings in the Tuscan Language