Cesare Borgia returns triumphantly to Rome, from Romagna.
Portuguese navigator João da Nova probably discovers Ascension Island.[1] It is definitely sighted and named on May 20, 1503 (Feast of the Ascension) by Afonso de Albuquerque.
The Rebellion of the Alpujarras ends with the surrender of the last Muslim insurgents in the Alpujarra Mountains, who are given the choice of expulsion or conversion to Christianity.
Harmonice Musices Odhecaton, the first printed collection of polyphonic music, is published by Ottaviano Petrucci in Venice.
Ismail I is enthroned as Shah of Azerbaijan, choosing Tabriz as his capital, founding the Safavid Dynasty in northern Iran. He declares Shi'ism the official and compulsory religion, under penalty of death.
Portuguese explorer Pedro Cabral returns to Lisbon, from his expedition to Calicut (Nicolau Coelho having arrived on June 23).
Copernicus is formally installed, as canon of Frauenberg Cathedral.
John, King of Denmark, Norway and Sweden is deposed from the Swedish throne.
Florentine political theorist, statesman, and writer Niccolò Machiavelli marries Marietta Corsini, who will bear him six children.
Battle of the Siritsa River: The Livonian Order, supporting the Grand Duchy of Lithuania in the Second Muscovite–Lithuanian War, and commanded by Wolter von Plettenberg, defeats an army of the Grand Duchy of Moscow and Pskov Republic.
Treaty of Trente: Maximilian of Austria and Louis XII of France sign the treaty, with Austria recognizing all French conquests in the northern territories of Italy.
The Banquet of Chestnuts is purportedly held by Cesare Borgia, in the Papal Palace of Rome (this account is not historical fact, and could be attributed to enemies of Alexander VI).
Amerigo Vespucci discovers and names Baía de Todos os Santos, in Brazil.
Battle of Mstislavl (Second Muscovite–Lithuanian War): Grand Prince Ivan's Southern Muscovite army defeats the forces of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania.
Philip and Joanna of Castile leave for Spain.
Sten Sture the Elder is elected Regent of Sweden for the second time.
Arthur, Prince of Wales, marries the Spanish princess Catherine of Aragon.
A large army of the Grand Duchy of Moscow overruns Livonia during the Second Muscovite–Lithuanian War.
Alexander Jagiellon becomes King of Poland.
The Swiss cantons of Basel and Schaffhausen join the Old Swiss Confederacy.
Gaspar Corte-Real, Portuguese navigator, makes the first documented European landing in North America since c. 1000 A.D.
Rodrigo de Bastidas, sailing westward from Venezuela in search of gold, becomes the first European to explore the Isthmus of Panama.
Amerigo Vespucci maps the two stars Alpha Centauri and Beta Centauri, as well as the stars of the constellation Crux, which are below the horizon in Europe.
Michelangelo returns to his native Florence, to begin work on the statue David.
Italic type (cut by Francesco Griffo) is first used by Aldus Manutius at the Aldine Press in Venice, in an edition of Virgil.
Martin Luther enters the University of Erfurt.
