Seville in Castile is awarded exclusive rights to trade with the New World.
Construction of the Henry VII Chapel at Westminster Abbey begins in the perpendicular style, the final stage of English Gothic art.[1]
Queen Elizabeth of York, wife of Henry VII of England, dies on her 37th birthday, more than a week after giving birth to her daughter Katherine Tudor, who died the previous day.
Challenge of Barletta: Thirteen Italian knights defeat thirteen French knights, near Barletta.
French–Spanish Wars in Italy – Battle of Ruvo: The Spanish defeat the French.
Battle of Seminara: Spanish forces under Fernando de Andrade de las Mariñas defeat the French under Bernard Stewart, 4th Lord of Aubigny.
Battle of Cerignola: Spanish forces under Gonzalo Fernández de Córdoba defeat the French under Louis d'Armagnac, Duke of Nemours, who is killed (considered to be the first battle in history won by gunpowder small arms).
Christopher Columbus discovers the Cayman Islands, which he names Las Tortugas, after the numerous sea turtles there.
Naples is captured by the Spanish.
(Feast of the Ascension) – Ascension Island is first definitely sighted, by Portuguese admiral Afonso de Albuquerque.
James IV of Scotland and Margaret Tudor are married by Pope Alexander VI, according to Papal bull.
The Treaty of Everlasting Peace between Scotland and England is signed; it actually lasts for ten years.
Orbital calculations suggest that on this day, Pluto moves outside Neptune's orbit, remaining there for 233 years.
Saint Helena is first definitely sighted, by ships of Portuguese navigator Estêvão da Gama returning from the East.
King James IV of Scotland marries Margaret Tudor, daughter of King Henry VII of England, at Holyrood Abbey, Edinburgh, Scotland.
Stephen III of Moldavia concludes a treaty with Sultan Bayezid II, preserving Moldavia's self-rule at the cost of an annual tribute to the Ottoman Empire.
Pope Pius III (Francesco Todeschini Piccolomini) succeeds Alexander VI as the 215th pope, but dies on October 18.
Queen Isabella I of Spain prohibits violence against native tribes.
Pope Julius II succeeds Pius III, as the 216th pope (some sources list November 1 as the date of election).
Battle of Garigliano, near Gaeta, Italy: Spanish forces under Gonzalo Fernández de Córdoba defeat a French–Italian mercenary army under Ludovico II, Marquess of Saluzzo; the French forces withdraw to Gaeta.
Vasco da Gama establishes India's first Portuguese fortress, at Cochin.
Canterbury Cathedral is finished in England, after 433 years of construction.[citation needed]
Mariotto Albertinelli paints The Visitation.
Hieronymus Bosch works on the triptych The Garden of Earthly Delights.
Leonardo da Vinci probably starts work on painting the Mona Lisa in Florence.
The book The Imitation of Christ by Thomas à Kempis is re-published in an English translation.
The pocket handkerchief comes into general use in polite European society.
From this year until 1650, sixteen million kilograms of silver and 185,000 kilograms of gold will enter the port of Seville.
