French troops of King Louis XII surrender Gaeta to the Spanish, under Gonzalo Fernández de Córdoba.
After the death of Sten Sture the Elder on December 14 the year before, Svante Nilsson is elected the new Regent of Sweden.
Treaty of Lyon: France cedes Naples to Ferdinand II of Aragon, who becomes King of Naples as Ferdinand III.
Christopher Columbus uses his knowledge of a lunar eclipse this night, to convince Jamaican tribesmen to provide him with supplies.
English guilds become subject to state control.
Maximilian I, Holy Roman Emperor, routes troops to Bavaria.
Michelangelo's sculpture of David is completed in Florence.
Queen Isabella and King Ferdinand issue a Royal Warrant for the construction of Capilla Real,a Royal Chapel, to be built.
A settled engagement is arranged, between Karel of Luxembourg and Claudia the Beaujeu.
Treaty of Blois: Philip I of Castile, Maximilian I and Louis XII agree to terms.
Isabella I of Castile signs her testament.
Christopher Columbus returns to Spain from his fourth voyage, during which he and his younger son, Ferdinand, explored the coast of Central America from Belize to Panama.
Isabella I of Castile, Catholic Queen of Castile and Aragon, dies, ending her patronage for Columbus. The Crown of Castile passes to her daughter Joanna.
Islamic scholar Ahmad ibn Abi Jum'ah issues the Oran fatwa for Muslims in Spain (1 Rajab 910 AH in Hijri calendar, Gregorian date is approximate).
Babur besieges and captures Kabul.
Islamization of the Sudan region: A Funj leader, Amara Dunqas, founds the Sultanate of Sennar.
Sheikh Ahmad, final leader of the Great Horde, is last heard of as a Lithuanian prisoner at Vilnius.
Juan de la Cosa begins his first independent voyage, to the Isthmus of Panama.
In Florence, Leonardo da Vinci and Niccolò Machiavelli become involved in a scheme to divert the Arno River, cutting the water supply to Pisa to force its surrender: Colombino, the project foreman, fails to follow da Vinci’s design, and the project is a major failure.
Venetian ambassadors suggest to Turkey the construction of a Suez Canal.
Aldus Manutius publishes his edition of Demosthenes in Venice.
Matthias Grünewald paints a Crucifixion.
The Signoria of Florence commissions both Leonardo da Vinci and Michelangelo to paint the walls of the Grand Council Chamber in the Palazzo Vecchio.
Raphael paints The Marriage of the Virgin, which exemplifies some major principles of High Renaissance art.
