Ulrich Zwingli preaches for the first time, as people's priest of the Great Minister in Zürich.
Hernán Cortés and his conquistadores land in Mexico.
(Maundy Thursday) – Hernán Cortés reaches San Juan de Ulúa; next day (Good Friday) he sets foot on the beach of modern-day Veracruz.
Charles I of Spain becomes Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor (rules until 1556).
Martin Luther joins the debate regarding papal authority, against Johann Eck at Leipzig.
The Prince of Ning rebellion begins, after Zhu Chenhao declares the Ming dynasty's Zhengde Emperor a usurper, and leads his army north in an attempt to capture Nanjing.
Panama City is founded.
Ming Dynasty Chinese philosopher and general Wang Yangming, governor of Jiangxi, defeats Zhu Chenhao, ending the Prince of Ning rebellion. Wang has expressed the intention of using fo–lang–ji cannons in suppressing the rebellion, probably the earliest reference in China to the breech-loading Frankish culverin.
Ferdinand Magellan departs from Spain with a fleet of five ships, to sail westabout to the Spice Islands.
Hernán Cortés and his men, accompanied by 3,000 Tlaxcalans, enter Cholula.
Hernán Cortés enters Tenochtitlan, and the court of Aztec ruler Moctezuma.
The first civil revolt in Anatolia takes place, led by Alevi preacher Celâl.
The Spanish find Barbados.
Spanish conquistadors sailing up the Pacific coast from Panama first observe modern-day Nicaragua, landing at Gulf of Nicoya.
Havana moves from the southern to the northern part of Cuba.
A large pandemic spreads from the Greater Antilles into Central America, and perhaps as far as Peru in South America. This widespread epidemic kills off much of the indigenous populations in these areas (the first widely documented epidemic in the New World).
Central Mexico Amerindians' population reaches 25.3 million.
The Mexican Indian Wars begin.
The Postclassic period ends in Mesoamerica.
Cacao comes to Europe.
St. Olaf's Church, Tallinn is completed in Estonia.
The first recorded fatal accident involving a gun in England is recorded at Welton, East Riding of Yorkshire.
The artistic form appears in Georgia and spreads