The Swiss Anabaptist Movement is born when Conrad Grebel, Felix Manz, George Blaurock, and about a dozen others baptize each other in the home of Manz's mother on Neustadt-Gasse, Zürich, breaking a thousand-year tradition of church-state union.
Battle of Pavia: Spanish forces under Charles de Lannoy and the Marquis of Pescara defeat the French army, and capture Francis I of France, after his horse is wounded by Cesare Hercolani. While Francis is imprisoned in Madrid, the first attempts to form a Franco-Ottoman alliance with Suleiman the Magnificent against the Habsburg Empire are made.
The last Aztec Emperor, Cuauhtémoc, is killed by Hernán Cortés.
In the German town of Memmingen, the pamphlet The Twelve Articles: The Just and Fundamental Articles of All the Peasantry and Tenants of Spiritual and Temporal Powers by Whom They Think Themselves Oppressed is published , the first human rights related document written in Europe.
Albert, Duke of Prussia commits Prussian Homage.
Battle of Frankenhausen: Insurgent peasants led by radical pastor Thomas Müntzer are defeated, ending the German Peasants' War in the Holy Roman Empire in which over 75,000 peasants have been killed.
Martin Luther marries ex-nun Katharina von Bora. The painter Lucas Cranach the Elder is one of the witnesses.
Henry VIII of England appoints his 6-year old illegitimate son Henry FitzRoy Duke of Richmond and Somerset.
Santa Marta, the first city in Colombia, is founded by Spanish conquistador Rodrigo de Bastidas.
The first French ambassador to reach the Sublime Porte, Jean Frangipani, sets out for Constantinople.
Mixco Viejo, capital of the Pocomam Maya State, falls to the Spanish conquistadores of Pedro de Alvarado (in modern-day Guatemala) after a 3-month siege.
European-brought diseases sweep through the Andes, killing thousands, including the Inca.
The Bubonic plague spreads in southern France.
William Tyndale's New Testament Bible translation into English is made (printed copies reach England in 1526).
The Navarre witch trials (1525-26) begin.
The Chinese Ministry of War under the Ming dynasty orders ships having more than one mast sailing along the southeast coast to be seized, investigated, and destroyed; this in an effort to curb piracy and limit private commercial trade abroad.
The Age of Samael ends, and the Age of Gabriel begins, according to Johannes Trithemius.
Esmahan Sultan, daughter of Sah Sultan, and wife of Sehzade Mehmed.
