Croatian nobles elect Ferdinand I of Austria as King of Croatia in the Parliament on Cetin.
Felix Manz, co-founder of the Swiss Anabaptists, is drowned in the Limmat in Zürich, by the Zürich Reformed state church.
Battle of Khanwa: This and two other major Moghul victories lead to their domination of northern India.
Paracelsus is appointed as town physician of Basel, Switzerland.
The Treaty of Westminster (1527), an alliance during the War of the League of Cognac, is signed.
Sack of Rome: Spanish and German troops led by the Duke of Bourbon sack Rome, forcing Pope Clement VII to make peace with Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor, marking the end of the High Renaissance. The Pope grows a beard in mourning.
In Florence, the Piagnon, a group devoted to the memory of Girolamo Savonarola, drive out the Medici for a second time, re-establishing the Republic of Florence until 1530.
The Narváez expedition to conquer Florida sets sail from Spain.
The Protestant Reformation begins in Sweden. The Riksdag of the Estates in Västerås adopts Lutheranism as the state religion, in place of Roman Catholicism. This results in the confiscation of church property and dissolution of Catholic convents in accordance with the Reduction of Gustav I of Sweden.
Niccolò Machiavelli, Italian historian, politician, diplomat, philosopher and humanist dies in Florence, Italy.
Jakarta, current capital of Indonesia, is founded as Jayakarta.
Paracelsus burns the books of Avicenna.
The first known letter is sent from North America by John Rut, while at St. John's, Newfoundland.
Sixty Anabaptists meet at the Martyrs' Synod in Augsburg.
Diet of Odense (Denmark): King Frederick I declares religious tolerance for Lutherans, permits marriage of priests and forbids seeking papal pallium (approval) for royal appointments of Church officials.[1][2]
Battle of Tarcal: Ferdinand, future Holy Roman Emperor, defeats John Zápolya and takes over most of Hungary. John appeals to the Turks for help.
The Spanish conquest of Guatemala's highlands is completed; the first Guatemala City (Ciudad Vieja) is founded.
Spanish Conquistador Francisco de Montejo invades Yucatán.
Members of the University of Wittenberg flee to Jena, in fear of the bubonic plague.
Bishop Vesey's Grammar School (at Sutton Coldfield, in the West Midlands of England) is founded by Bishop John Vesey.
Sir George Monoux College is founded as a grammar school at Walthamstow, England, by Sir George Monoux, draper and Lord Mayor of London.
The Ming Dynasty government of China greatly reduces the quotas for taking grain, severely diminishing the state's capacity to relieve famines through a previously successful granary system.
The second Dalecarlian Rebellion breaks out in Sweden.
