Pope Leo X excommunicates Martin Luther, in the papal bull Decet Romanum Pontificem.
Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor, opens the Diet of Worms in Worms, Germany.
Suleiman the Magnificent suppresses a revolt by the ruler of Damascus.
The Diet of Worms begins, lasting until May 25.
The Nydala Abbey Bloodbath take place in Nydala Abbey, Sweden.
Ferdinand Magellan discovers Guam.
Martin Luther is summoned to appear before the Diet of Worms.
Ferdinand Magellan reaches the Philippines. Starting this year, the Philippines is now one day behind its Asian neighbors.
Ferdinand Magellan arrives at Cebu.
Martin Luther preaches an inflammatory sermon to students at Erfurt, while on his way to Worms.
Martin Luther is examined before Emperor Charles V and the Diet of Worms, where he proclaims, "Here I stand", regarding his belief in the Bible alone, as the standard of Christian doctrine.
Revolt of the Comuneros – Battle of Villalar: Castilian royalists defeat the rebels and execute their three leaders.
Martin Luther leaves Worms and disappears for a year – he is rumored to be murdered, but is actually in hiding at the Wartburg castle.
Battle of Mactan: Ferdinand Magellan is killed in the Philippines.
The Italian War of 1521–26 breaks out between Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor, and Francis I of France.
Edward Stafford, 3rd Duke of Buckingham, is executed for treason in London.
Battle of Pampeluna: The French defeat the Spanish.
The Diet of Worms ends when Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor issues the Edict of Worms, declaring Martin Luther an outlaw.
Jiajing Emperor ascends the throne of the Ming Dynasty.
The oldest surviving dateable document written primarily in the Romanian language: Neac?u's letter, written by a trader from Câmpulung, to Johannes Benkner, the mayor of Bra?ov, warning that the Ottoman Empire is preparing its troops to cross into Wallachia and Transylvania; the script used is Romanian Cyrillic.
Battle of Esquiroz: French forces under Henri d'Albret, exiled King of Navarre, are defeated by the Spanish, and forced to abandon their attempt to recover Henri's kingdom.
Pfaffensturm: Students rebel against priests in Erfurt.
Fall of Tenochtitlan: Hernán Cortés and allied local indigenous peoples of the Americas defeat the Aztec forces of Cuauhtémoc, the last Tlatoani (Aztec Emperor), at Tenochtitlan in the Valley of Mexico.
Fall of Tenochtitlan: Cuauhtémoc surrenders to Cortés, thus incorporating the Aztec Empire into the Spanish Empire.
Christian II of Denmark is deposed as king of Sweden and Gustav Vasa is elected new Swedish regent.
Belgrade is captured by the Ottoman army of Suleiman the Magnificent.
Spanish–German–Papal forces under Prospero Colonna force French Marshal Odet de Lautrec to abandon Milan.
The Zwickau prophets arrive in Wittenberg, disturbing the peace and preaching the Apocalypse.
Jacopo Berengario da Carpi publishes Commentaria cum amplissimus additionibus super anatomiam Mundini in Bologna, including observation of the vermiform appendix.
San Juan Bautista is founded in the archipelago of Puerto Rico.
The principality of Ryazan is annexed by the Grand Duchy of Moscow.
