(MDXXVIII) was a leap year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Perak Sultanate established at Perak Darul Ridzuan (modern-day Perak Darul Ridzuan, Malaysia).
Johor Sultanate established at Johor Darul Takzim (modern-day Johor Darul Takzim, Malaysia).
Gustav I of Sweden is crowned king of Sweden, having already reigned since his election in June 1523.
Peasant uprising in Dalarna, Sweden: The rebel campaign fails, and the rebel leader, later known as Daljunkern, flees to Rostock.
Diego García de Moguer explores the Sierra de la Plata along the Río de la Plata, and begins to travel up the Paraná River.[1]
Paracelsus visits Colmar in Alsace.
Andrea Doria defeats his former allies, the French, and establishes the independence of Genoa.
Álvaro de Saavedra Cerón arrives in the Maluku Islands.
Cardinal Thomas Wolsey founds a college in his birthplace of Ipswich, England, which becomes the modern-day Ipswich School (incorporating institutions in the town dating back to 1299).
The Treaty of Gorinchem is signed between Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor, and Charles, Duke of Guelders.
Spanish conquistador Álvar Núñez Cabeza de Vaca and his companions become the first known Europeans to set foot on the shores of what is present-day Texas.
Montenegro gains autonomy under Turkish power.
The Maya peoples drive Spanish Conquistadores out of Yucatán.
Spain takes direct control of Acapulco.
Bubonic plague breaks out in England.[2]
The fourth major outbreak of the sweating sickness occurs in England. This time the disease also spreads to northern Europe.
St George's Chapel in Windsor Castle is completed.
Chateau Fontainebleau in France is begun.
Michelangelo Buonarroti begins work on the fortifications of Florence.
Baldassare Castiglione publishes The Book of the Courtier.
In Henan province, China, during the mid Ming dynasty, a vast drought deprives the region of harvests for the next two years, killing off half the people in some communities, due to starvation and cannibalism.[3]
In modern-day Malaysia, the Perak Sultanate is established at Perak Darul Ridzuan and the Johor Sultanate at Johor Darul Takzim.
Paracelsus leaves Basel.
